<PRE>Storm, Nugache lead dangerous new botnet barrage
By Dennis Fisher, Executive Editor
19 Dec 2007 | SearchSecurity.com
&lt;<A HREF="http://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/originalContent/0,289142,sid14_gci1286808">http://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/originalContent/0,289142,sid14_gci1286808</A>
,00.html?track=NL-358&amp;ad=614777&amp;asrc=EM_NLN_2785475&amp;uid=1408222&gt;

In early 2006, Dave Dittrich, a senior security engineer and researcher at the 
University of Washington in Seattle, got a sample of a new strain of malware 
from a colleague, and began monitoring its activity. The Trojan was a bit lazy 
at first, making just a few outbound connections. But it quickly became 
obvious that this was no ordinary piece of malware, because each of the 
connections was to a peer and not a central command and control server.

This was strange behavior for PCs that have been compromised by this type of 
malware. The members of a distributed network like this typically communicate 
only with one central machine, called the command and control server. It's a 
top-down structure; the C&amp;C server gives the commands and the compromised PCs 
carry them out. However, this new network didn't seem to have one C&amp;C server 
that was running the show, and the malware itself couldn't really even be 
classified as a bot as it didn't make its first IRC connection for more than a 
month. IRC, or Internet Relay Chat, is the preferred method of communication 
for botnet controllers.

But with this network, in lieu of one C&amp;C server, there were a number of peers 
around the network that were sending out commands and serving as download 
sites for various pieces of the network. So if one of the peers in the network 
that the attacker is using to issue commands to the rest of the network is 
shut down, the attacker could simply begin sending orders through another 
peer. This made the entire network of compromised PCs equal partners and made 
the prospect of disabling the network incredibly daunting.

As troubling as this new development was, more troubling was the fact that the 
peers sending out the commands changed on the fly and, as Dittrich watched, 
various members of the network would drop off botnet, only to reappear days or 
weeks later. So the shape and size of the botnet was changing almost 
constantly, with entire branches going dark for extended periods of time and 
peers jumping from one portion of the network to another seemingly on a whim. 
And, to add to the pile of bad news, the bots were communicating with each 
other over an encrypted channel, making it all but impossible to listen in on 
their conversations.

Dittrich, one of the top botnet researchers in the world, has been tracking 
botnets for close to a decade and has seen it all. But this new piece of 
malware, which came to be known as Nugache, was a game-changer. With no C&amp;C 
server to target, bots capable of sending encrypted packets and the 
possibility of any peer on the network suddenly becoming the de facto leader 
of the botnet, Nugache, Dittrich knew, would be virtually impossible to stop.

&quot;The authors are making these subtle little changes to keep it under the 
radar, and they're succeeding,&quot; said Dittrich.

This is the future of malware and it's not a pretty picture. What it is, is a 
nightmare: a new breed of malicious software developed, tested and sold by 
professionals and engineered to change on the fly, adapt to its environment 
and evade traditional defenses.

Nugache, and its more famous cousin, the Storm Trojan, are not simply the next 
step in the evolution of malware. They represent a major step forward in both 
the quality of software that malware authors are producing and in the 
sophistication of their tactics. Although they're often referred to as worms, 
Storm and Nugache are actually Trojans. The Storm creator, for example, sends 
out millions of spam messages on a semi-regular basis, each containing a link 
to content on some remote server, normally disguised in a fake pitch for a 
penny stock, Viagra or relief for victims of a recent natural disaster. When a 
user clicks on the link, the attacker's server installs the Storm Trojan on 
the user's PC and it's off and running.

Various worms, viruses, bots and Trojans over the years have had one or two of 
the features that Storm, Nugache, Rbot and other such programs possess, but 
none has approached the breadth and depth of their feature sets. Rbot, for 
example, has more than 100 features that users can choose from when compiling 
the bot. This means that two different bots compiled from an identical source 
could have nearly identical feature sets, yet look completely different to an 
antivirus engine.
	

The creators of these Trojans and bots not only have very strong software 
development and testing skills, but also clearly know how security vendors 
operate and how to outmaneuver defenses such as antivirus software, IDS and 
firewalls, experts say. They know that they simply need to alter their code 
and the messages carrying it in small ways in order to evade signature-based 
defenses. Dittrich and other researchers say that when they analyze the code 
these malware authors are putting out, what emerges is a picture of a group of 
skilled, professional software developers learning from their mistakes, 
improving their code on a weekly basis and making a lot of money in the 
process.

&quot;If you look at the way [Storm] is used, it's clear that money is changing 
hands and that the software has gone through a testing and revision process,&quot; 
said Phillip Porras, a program director at SRI International in Menlo Park, 
Calif., who has studied Storm's behavior. &quot;The botnet is out there to help 
some group of people make money. This kind of malware is an economy now. Storm 
is not meant to spread across the entire Internet. It's meant to compromise 
specific targets. It's a network that is very good at producing money.&quot;

&lt;snip/&gt;


---------------------------------------------------------------------
The Cryptography Mailing List
Unsubscribe by sending &quot;unsubscribe cryptography&quot; to <A HREF="http://www.metzdowd.com/mailman/listinfo/cryptography">majordomo at metzdowd.com</A>

</PRE>