<PRE>
Peter Gutmann writes, in part:
-+----------------------------
 | ... - the rate-limiting step is the fact that
 | the crooks simply can't use all the stolen identities
 | they have, not any security measures that may be present.
 | ...


To my knowledge, you are correct.  It seems that the
price of stolen credentials (on the black market) is
falling, which, as with the street price of heroin, would
tend to indicate that the opposition is winning.

I have a slide for this somewhere (not on this machine)
and will dig it up if needed, but the disparity between
actual crime and a naive estimate of the opportunity for
crime seems to be widening.  If correct, then such a
disparity would either indicate that our countermeasures
are winning -or- the predators are leaving prey on the
field.  I'm sadly of the opinion that it is the latter.

In their Internet Security Threat Report, Symantec used
to publish the number of bots detected.  The last one of
those I have at hand showed a leveling out of the number
found de novo per unit interval (per month).  Again, this
permits two interpretations; on the one hand, we are winning
in that we are preventing the problem from worsening while
on the other hand it can be read to mean that as fast as
we remove bots from hosts that other hosts are botted
and, as such, the supply of bots being stable implies
that it is easy enough to replace them that the lost of
an individual host does not slow down our opposition.
What does (in the Symantec graphs) vary is the variance
of in-and-out-flow, but not the fraction that are botted.
This would tend to strengthen the argument that any
periodic sweep of bots off networks is compensated
for relatively quickly.  In public health, widely
varying incidence (new infection rate) but stable
prevalence (infected fraction) tends to indicate
a high degree of infectability and not a particularly
effective immune response.  We see this in a way in
the AIDS data -- every advance in treatability seems
to be followed by increases in risky behavior while
prevalence remains to a degree stable.

This idea of replacement of cured machines by infected
machines seems corroborated in a different way as well.
The opposition seems to have lately decided that the
advantages of stealth outway the advantages of persistence,
which is to say that in-core-only infection is now the
preferred mechanism and not writing to disk so as to
preserve infected status through a reboot cycle.  If
this is correct, then it signals that the opposition
can replace machines lost through reboot easily enough
that the availability of penetrated machines can be
better enhanced through making infections harder to
find (latent, in medical parlance) than through making
a once penetrated machine stay penetrated as to do the
latter you have to expose yourself to periodic clean-up
of that which is persistent (on disk).

For anyone looking ahead, the interaction between this
phenomenon (if it is indeed a phenomenon) and the growing
role of virtual machines should be of intense interest.

Inferentially yours,

--dan

---------------------------------------------------------------------
The Cryptography Mailing List
Unsubscribe by sending &quot;unsubscribe cryptography&quot; to <A HREF="http://www.metzdowd.com/mailman/listinfo/cryptography">majordomo at metzdowd.com</A>

</PRE>